docs: add updated auth custom smtp docs (#29532)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/auth/auth-smtp.mdx

---
id: 'auth-smtp'
title: 'Send emails with custom SMTP'
description: 'Moving towards production: Configuring a custom SMTP provider'
---

If you're using Supabase Auth with the following configuration:

- Email and password accounts
- Passwordless accounts using one-time passwords or links sent over email (OTP, magic link, invites)

> - Email-based account invitations from the Supabase dashboard or from the Auth admin APIs

Reviewer: Can consider highlighting that this is for the project invites and that Organizational invites are not affected. Might not be evident for new-to-supabase users

- Social login with email confirmation

You will need to set up a custom SMTP server to handle the delivery of messages to your users.

To get you started and let you explore and set up email message templates for your application, Supabase provides a simple SMTP server for all projects. This server imposes a few important restrictions and is not meant for production use.

**Send messages only to pre-authorized addresses.**

Unless you configure a custom SMTP server for your project, Supabase Auth will refuse to deliver messages to addresses that are not part of the project's team. You can manage this in the [Team tab](https://supabase.com/dashboard/org/_/team) of the organization's settings.

For example, if your project's organization has these member accounts `person-a@example.com`, `person-b@example.com` and `person-c@example.com` then Supabase Auth will only send messages to these addresses. All other addresses will fail with the error message _Email address not authorized._

**Significant rate-limits that can change over time.**

> To maintain the health and reputation of the default SMTP sending service, the number of messages your project can send is limited and can change without notice. Currently this value is set to 2 messages per hour.

Reviewer: Consider using shared constant so it doesn't of sync

Reference: https://github.com/supabase/supabase/blob/0aa4793de8bb9838419b014d35bea73a3dc527bb/apps/docs/components/MDX/auth_rate_limits.mdx?plain=1#L3
```suggestion
To maintain the health and reputation of the default SMTP sending service, the number of messages your project can send is limited and can change without notice. Currently this value is set to <SharedData data="config">auth.rate_limits.email.inbuilt_smtp_per_hour</SharedData> messages per hour.
```

A common source of abuse is bots or attackers signing up users to your application.

They use lists of known email addresses to sign up users to your project with pre-determined passwords. These can vary in scale and intensity: sometimes the bots slowly send sign up requests over many months, or they send a lot of requests at once.

Usually the goal for this behavior is:

- To negatively affect your email sending reputation, after which they might ask for a ransom promising to stop the behavior.
- To cause a short-term or even long-term Denial of Service attack on your service, by preventing new account creation, sign ins with magic links or one-time passwords, or to severely impact important security flows in your application (such as reset password or forgot password).
- To force you to reduce the security posture of your project, such as by disabling email confirmations. At that point, they may target specific or a broad number of users by creating an account in their name. Then they can use social engineering techniques to trick them to use your application in such a way that both attacker and victim have access to the same account.

Mitigation strategies:

> - [Configure CAPTCHA protection](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-captcha) for your project, which is the most effective way to control bots in this scenario. You can use CAPTCHA services which provide inisible challenges where real users won't be asked to solve puzzles most of the time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configure CAPTCHA protection](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-captcha) for your project, which is the most effective way to control bots in this scenario. You can use CAPTCHA services which provide invisible challenges where real users won't be asked to solve puzzles most of the time.
```
